[1.636 - 31.969] SPEAKER_04: Donald Davis is a master story crafter. He builds his work on a foundation of lived experience and personal story, but he brings those experiences and those stories to a level  where they are full of art and full of heart. Please welcome Donald Davis.

[42.243 - 50.565] SPEAKER_00: Oh, thank you. Thank you. We are here. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Yeah.

[51.446 - 1591.258] SPEAKER_01: I've actually been here all week for more than a week doing shows as the teller in residence. And one of the things I noticed during the week, you know, for the last two years, the trains haven't run.  And so all week this week, they've been running them up and down, you know, to get them all warmed up again, be sure that they're running real well. And they told us they had a new piece of equipment that if a cell phone rings, it calls another train to come.  So, boy, that'll shut them down now, won't it? Yeah. But thank you so much for being here. I've missed you. We've missed being together as listeners. It's wonderful for us to be able to work together once again. I was born... Thank you.  I was born right across these mountains in Waynesville, North Carolina. And when I was born, I had hair and I had three cowlicks. I had sort of a double crown in the back. It went that way and that way. And then up here where I used to have hair in the front, I had another cowlick that went like that.  And so my mama would just take the scissors and a little comb, and she'd just cut it off and cut it off and cut it off and cut it off. It just went every which way. And then the summer when I was six years old, when I was getting ready to start school, one Saturday morning, my mama said to my daddy, she said, Joe, take him to the barbershop and get him a store-bought haircut to start school with.  And we started out the door, and the last thing my mama said as we went out the door, she said to my daddy, don't let Jim Caldwell cut it. Well, we got in the car, and we went down into Hazelwood and went in the barber shop. Now, all the barbers were Caldwells. Mr. Jim, he was the owner of the shop, and he was old. And then the other three barbers were actually his three nephews.  There was Jarvis and J.R. and Herschel, and they had learned to cut hair in the Second World War. And so then they'd come back, and they'd join Mr. Jim there in the barbershop, and there they were. And when we got there, they were all busy, so we had to sit down and wait a little bit. Now, when I started watching what was happening in there, I realized why my mama said, don't let Mr. Jim cut it.  See, you've got to remember, this was like 1950, and we did not know anything about things like Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's. All we knew was when people got old, you got hardened into the arteries. And then some people got what the other old people call the palsy. And Mr. Jim was one of those that had the palsy.  And he reached over and he picked up that clipper, and here it came through the air. And it's heading towards somebody's head. It hit about three times going across through there. Then it came back from the other side like that. Not long ago, we were riding around somewhere, and outside the mall, there were a whole bunch of teenagers out there. And I started looking at their hair, and I thought, you know, if Mr. Jim were cutting hair today, he'd make a fortune. It'd just be beautiful.  Well, we kept watching and watching and watching, and finally it was Herschel who finished up on the person he was cutting, and he shook out that sheet, and the man got down, and he turned to my daddy and said, Joe, it's your boy next. Send him up here. He can be my special customer.  And I started up toward that big Coke and barber chair. And then Herschel pulled out this special appliance that they have in barber shops to show little boys that they're not big enough to be there. It was a plank. You know, that laid across the arms of that Coke and barber chair. So you sat on the plank and then you put your feet down in the seat because you weren't tall enough to get your hair cut like a big person.  Well, at that time, a haircut cost 60 cents. And Herschel gave me a nice haircut, my first professional haircut ever. My daddy paid him 60 cents, and we proudly, I even had smelly stuff on me. And then we proudly went back home. Since we walked in the door, my mama said, I thought you took him to get his haircut.  My daddy said, I did, doesn't it look good? And she said, did you pay for that? Now what I did not know was, what I did know was, my dad was 18 years older than my mama. But what I didn't know was that my mama and Herschel were the same age. They had grown up in school together. He had been scared of her since they were little kids.  And she said to my daddy, let's go get in the car.  And we drove back into town to the barbershop, and we went inside, and my mother circled Herschel like a buzzard while she made him keep cutting hair off. She'd say, you missed one over there. You missed one over here. You got that side longer than this side. Get it on down in the back. Get the rest of that cowlick off. Around and around and around and around and around till it was cut down to the bone.  And after that, my daddy never got to take me to the barbershop again. My mama took me. And it was so embarrassing, especially, you know, when you got to be like 8 years old and 9 years old and 10 years old and you go to the barbershop and there are your friends, you know, by themselves getting their hair cut and there's my mama with me.  And she circles Herschel and supervises, you know, every time. By then, I knew clearly that women did not belong in the barbershop. Because there were two signs in there that, in essence, said no women. One of those signs said, no spitting. And the other one said, no profanity.  And I thought, if that doesn't mean no women, I don't know what it means. But that didn't stop my mama. She was always there. Well, it kept going on and it kept going on and it kept going on. Up until the sixth grade, when I went to school, I went to school at the same place my mother taught.  So my little brother and I had to go with her in the morning. I could hear her voice through the walls all day long. And then we had to go home with her in the afternoon. So I was absolutely thrilled when I got to the end of the sixth grade and the next year I got to go down the street to the junior high school. Now my mom was one of those teachers who had to be the first one to get there in the morning. You know, and the last one to leave in the afternoon.  So she would let me out at junior high school before the door was unlocked. And then in the afternoon, they were all ready to leave. And I'd have to go out and sit on the steps and wait until my mama finally got there. And when it turned into October and beyond, it was cold out there. And I fussed about that because I didn't have any hair to start with.  And my mother's solution was she knitted me this homemade big old wool toboggan hat to pull down over my head so I wouldn't freeze while I was waiting for her. And it was warm. And my mother was born congenitally cold. And our house had no heat.  So when I would wear that hat in the house, she thought it was a great idea and had no question about it. But you know why I really wore it? I wore it so my hair could sneak out. I'd get up in the morning, put that hat on, wear it in the house all day long, wear it to school, wear it back home, wear it until I went to bed, and she did not notice I was getting hair.  Well, one day she picked me up at school, and for some reason, it must have been a warm day, we start off in the car, and I pull the hat off. And she slammed on the brakes, and she turned and said, Who are you, and how did you get in my car? I said, Mom, it's me. She said, You're no child of mine. I never had anything that looked like this.  You look like a sheep dog. She says, I have got to get your hair cut, but we can't do it today. I have to run by the drugstore. I have to run by the doctor's office. I have about three errands to do. I said, Mama, Mama, listen, listen. I am 13 years old. I know how to get my hair cut.  Why don't you give me the money and let me out at the barbershop and you can go do all your errands. You won't even have to come back and get me. I will walk home when Herschel gets finished. And she said, well, we'll try it once. Now, haircuts have gone up to 90 cents by now.  And she gave me a dollar bill and she told me when Herschel finished to say, how much is it? And when he said 90 cents, tell him to keep the change. So she let me out there at the barbershop and she went on off to do all her errands. And I went inside and I waited for my turn to come.  Well, in a little while, Herschel finished whoever he was working on, and he looked at me, and he said, It's your turn now. By now, I was tall enough I didn't have to sit on the plank anymore. And I got up in the chair, and he looked at me, and he said, Where's your mama? I said, I am 13 years old.  I guess I'm old enough to come and get my hair cut without my mama. And Herschel said, he said, well, big boy, how do you want your hair cut? Now, I need to ask you a question at this moment.  When you were growing up, did your mother happen to have a list of people with whom you were not supposed to associate? Oh, mine did. It was more than one page long, too. But at the top of that list was a boy named Miles Chafin.  Now, Miles Chafin lived right up the road from us. He actually lived with his grandparents because both his parents were in military service. And they would come home from time to time, you know, on a leave. But his permanent home was there with his grandparents. And my mother said that was the source of all the trouble because he was spoiled.  And by the time we were about eight years old, Miles Chafin was the first kid my age I ever knew who had his own guitar. He thought he was little Hank Williams. And whenever we'd have some kind of little talent show or program at school, here he'd come to school bringing that guitar.  And he'd be wearing cowboy boots and blue jeans and a western shirt and a little vest and a cowboy hat. And he'd come out on the stage with the guitar and he'd start playing on the guitar and making very obvious, outlandish, inappropriate eye contact with mothers in the audience.  And then he'd start singing. Hey, good looking. What you got cooking? How's about cooking something? He was an evil, evil boy. Well, when we got to the seventh grade, Miles Chafin got converted. He got converted from Hank Williams to Elvis Presley.  And as far as my mama was concerned, that's about as deep a hole as you can dig. His hair grew way out. He actually dyed his hair black, dyed it himself with ripped clothing dye right there at home.  And then he got this big pompadour, you know, hairdo that came way up, and it was sort of shaved off like a duck tail across the back. And then he'd walk around and practice curling his lip back all the time.  And then when we had a little talent show at school, you know what they'd do? They'd get a card table. You know how you can let two legs down and then stand it up so the front stands up like that so you couldn't see him from here down? Because he was Elvis Presley from one end to the other. Yeah. Well, when Herschel said, how do you want your hair cut, big boy? I said...  do you know Miles Chafin? And Herschel said, hee, hee, hee. I said, I think he's got a real nice haircut. Now, I don't want mine dyed black. I'd just like it to stay the same color it is. But the more it could look, I think that's the way I'd really like for it to look.  Well, Herschel didn't cut any off except to sort of slab it off, you know, like a duck tail in the back. He could have picked some hair up off of the floor and stuck it on there because he started laying the wax to it, you know, and the butch wax and the grease and the butch wax. And he got it all built up, and then he got this metal silver comb and heated it up with a Zippo lighter.  And he would sizzle through my hair, and he'd pull it up and let it pop back. It would sizzle up and pop back and sizzle up. He kept working on it, and then finally he said, I believe we've got it. You want to look in the mirror? I said, no, sir, I know you know what you're doing. And I started to walk home.  Now I knew that the little town of Waynesville was a friendly place to live. But I did not have an idea how friendly it was till I was walking home that day. Cars would just slow down and they'd roll the window down and lean out and blow the horn and wave and  I finally got home and went in the house and I looked in the mirror. And it was many years later that I understood what I felt at that moment when I heard George W. Bush say, mistakes were made.  And I thought, how am I going to live till tomorrow? When she gets home, I'll be done for. I thought, well, what am I going to do? What am I going to do? And then I thought, wait a minute. My mama's doing errands. She's doing errands all over the place. She hadn't even thought about fixing supper yet. I know what I'll do. I will fix supper before she gets home.  And she will be so tickled that she will not even notice my hair. Well, I got busy. We always had a frozen ground beef in the freezer. I thought, you know, you can thaw that and cook it at the same time. You know, just put it frozen in the pan and keep turning it over while you go.  I put some onions in there and put some salt and pepper on it, and I was on the way. I got some potatoes and peeled the potatoes and cut them up. I was going to make mashed potatoes. And then I went in the basement. I got a quarter of the beans we had canned, you know, out of the garden that summer. It was going to be good. And I was just working away on the stove, working away, when my mama came in the door. And she could just see my back.  And she thought someone had broken into our house because they were starving and they were actually going to cook the food and eat it before they left. And then I turned around and she screamed and jumped about that high in the air.  And before her feet hit the floor, she was furious. But the good thing was, she wasn't mad at me. She was mad at Herschel. And she looked at me and she pointed a loaded finger at me.  And she said, go get in the car. And I got in the car and we drove back down into town and we got to the barber shop. We were too late. They were already closed. So we got back in the car and I thought, well, we're going back home. We're going back home. And then all of a sudden I realized, wait, we're not going toward home.  I didn't know where we were going because I didn't know where Hershel lived.  But we went straight to his house on Howell Mill Road. And we did not park in the front and ring the doorbell like polite visitors. Uh-uh. My mama drove right down the driveway. We got out of the car. She did not even knock on the back door. She just swung that kitchen door open. And we marched in there. He and his wife were just sitting down to eat supper. When my mama came in the door, his wife jumped up and backed up against the wall just trembling.  And my mama aimed that finger at him and said, fix it. And I spent about the next hour with my head in the kitchen sink while Herschel used two green bottles of grease-cutting detergent and emptied a 120-gallon hot water tank, getting all that grease and wax out of my hair.  And then he had to get up in the top of a closet and he found some old clippers he had stuffed up in there. And I sat there in the kitchen chair with my mama circling like a buzzard while he cut every bit of my hair right down to the bone. Now back when I'd gotten my hair cut to start with, at the end of it, I'd said to Herschel, how much do I owe you?  and he had said, it's on the house. So the one good thing I was thinking about at that moment was, even after all I've been through, I'm still a dollar ahead. Well, about that time, Herschel got finished, and my mama looked at him and said, Herschel,  Give him his money back. And without a pause, Herschel reached in his pocket, pulled out his billfold, and gave me another dollar. And I was $2 a head for the day right then.  My mama never, ever had to take me to the barbershop again. She knew she didn't have to. She had cured both of us. I'd go in there and I'd wait my turn. I'd get my hair cut. I'd say, how much do I owe you? And hers would say, not a thing. Every time you come in here, I get to remember that look on Lucille's face.  And that's worth a dollar any time. All through high school, every time, every time I needed a dollar, I'd say, Mama, I need to go get my hair cut. I got haircuts by the week, you know. I just filling up with the money like that.  Well, the last time I saw Herschel, my dad was 93 years old. It was in the last couple of months of his life. He was in a nursing care center just for about six months, and I went to visit. And while I was there visiting, Herschel came.  The barber shop was long gone. It was long closed. The barbers all retired. But Herschel was going around to visit his old customers who couldn't get out. You know, shut in at home or in a nursing center or retirement home. And he was cutting their hair. And he had come to give my daddy his haircut.  And he cut Daddy's hair, and we visited, and we talked, and we visited, and we talked. We had a wonderful time. I probably hadn't seen him for 30 years. He got ready to go, and my dad said, Herschel, I need to pay you. He said, oh, no, I've been paid. My dad said, well, I didn't give you any money. He said, no, Donald paid me. Daddy said, well, I didn't see him give you any money either.  Herschel said he didn't have to. He paid me by being here. He said, you see, I bet it's been close to 40 years since I remembered that look on Lucille's face.  And now I'm going to be thinking about that for the next month at least. And that is worth a haircut any time. Thank you.

[1626.192 - 1684.0] SPEAKER_04: Do I get to use Donald Davis's microphone? What Donald knows better than most of us is that laughter is a sacred thing. Thank you, Donald. If you have never seen Motoko before,  then you don't know yet that she speaks many languages. Japanese, English, music, and movement among them. She can be mischievous, eloquent, elegant, funny, and terrifying. Please welcome Motoko.

[1690.231 - 1698.254] SPEAKER_03: Thank you. Thank you, Mulberry. Wonderful. Thank you so much. Thank you. And thank you, Donald. Thank you, Mulberry.

[1700.275 - 2816.394] SPEAKER_02: I got this haircut last week. And my 35-year-old son looked at me and said, gosh, you look so Asian.  And this is the exact haircut I had when I was eight. But the point is that my son still has not forgiven me for the mushroom haircut I used to force upon him. You know which haircut I'm talking about. It's also called the salad bowl cut. So you put the salad bowl on your child's head, and you trim what's sticking out.  Well, it is an honor to be here. When the pandemic began and all my jobs were canceled, I said, Zoom telling? Never.  Then I did it every other day for two years. I also said, virtual background? Never. And now I have 500 of them on my computer to choose from. They are vital to my survival during the pandemic.  Another vital thing that has been vital for my survival during the pandemic is folktales. And I like to start this with a folktale because folktales have been around for hundreds and hundreds of years.  They are gifts from our ancestors. They are the wisdoms of people who a long time ago crystallized into gems, right? And I hope to be a part of this so that these folktales will exist hundreds and hundreds of years from now. I'd like to tell you my favorite folktale from Japan, and it's called Water of Life. Everybody say Water of Life, please.  Very good. But you have to say that in Japanese. In Japanese, it's inochi no mizu. Inochi no mizu. Good. Inochi no mizu. Perfect. And that means water of? Life. But it's a song, so I would like you to sing. You don't have to sing loudly. Sing softly. Sing like this. Inochi no mizu.  Oh, that's beautiful. Inochi no mizu. Inochi no mizu. Good. And that means water of? Life. So that is your part. I would love for you to sing that every time I go like this. But just to give you more of a fair warning, this is what we're going to do. We're going to clap our hands together three times.  Then we're going to start the song right away. I'm going to sing my part, and then you sing. Actually, you're going to sing your part first, and I'm going to go ahead and sing my part. So please don't wait for two seconds. OK? Ready? Three claps.  And one more clap at the end. Beautiful.  Once upon a time, a long time ago in Japan, there lived an old couple, an old man and an old woman who lived in this little village right at the foot of a mountain. The husband's name was Masa. Everybody say Masa. Masa. And the wife's name was Yoshi. Say Yoshi. Yoshi.  And both Masa and Yoshi were very poor, so they lived a simple life. But their lives were sweet because they loved each other very much. Everybody, please make a heart with your hands.  the old man, Masa, would always say, oh, my dear wife, Yoshi, I am the luckiest man in the whole world because I have been married to you for 50 years. And at this point, I just hope that when we die, we will die exactly at the same time so that we can go to heaven together.  And his wife, Yoshi, will blush and say, oh, my dear sweet husband, I feel exactly the same way. And I hope to be your wife in heaven, too. And both of them will go, muah. Of course, if you are children, you will all be saying, eww. But we have a mature audience here, so that's great.  Well, that was the way those people were. Well, it just so happened, though, that Masa and Yoshi had a very greedy and mean neighbor who was also his landlord. His name was Kichi. Say Kichi. And Kichi was the reason why Masa and Yoshi were so poor because Kichi was always raising their rent. I mean, every year. He would even spy on them, you know, look through their windows to see if Masa and Yoshi had anything he could take away from them.  Kichi loved money more than anything else, so he had piles of money in his house. But he did not have any family, and he didn't have any friends. Well, one day, the old man Masa went up the mountain to get some firewood. But as he started to climb up the hill, he felt this pain in his neck and this ache in his back. He said,  I am getting very old after all. But I must do this to take good care of my dear wife. And he kept climbing up the rocky hill. Y'all ready? Three claps.  Inochi no mizu ojiisan ga Inochi no mizu mitsuketa Inochi no mizu obasan ni Inochi no mizu ageyou  Suddenly, Masa heard some squeaky noises and saw something brown and furry jumping around fiercely in the bushes nearby. And he realized it was some kind of animal caught in the hunter's trap.  So he was curious. He walked over there to open up the bushes and saw that it was a beautiful, golden-colored fox caught in a trap. She was a mother fox he could see because her little babies, three of them, were running around her frantically, not knowing what to do. But as Masa came closer, the three baby foxes ran away and disappeared behind the trees.  the mother fox stopped jumping around. She just looked up at Masa with her sad brown eyes. Masa felt so sorry for the fox, he said, I am going to set you free because you must live and take care of your babies. And he stepped onto the metal hinge of the trap, and it opened up, and the mother fox was free.  But she was badly hurt. One of her hind legs was all smashed up. She began to hobble away, leaving a thin trail of blood right behind her. Pretty soon, the three baby kids came out of the bushes to join her. But you see, Masa was worried that the mother folks may not make it, so he too decided to follow them. I mean, for a while, at a distance.  The mother fox was moving very, very slowly. She seemed to be getting weaker and weaker. Well, they led Masa through trees and brambles higher and higher up the mountain and deeper and deeper into the forest until they came to this little spring of water among some moss-covered rocks. Masa, hiding behind a tree, saw the mother fox take a drink from that spring.  Then something strange happened, you see. When she finished drinking, the mother fox was no longer weak. I mean, she looked strong and healthy. And she and her little babies quickly climbed up the hill and disappeared behind the rocks in a flash. Her hind legs seemed to have been completely better.  So Masa was glad he was relieved, and he realized he was thirsty, too, after this long climb. So he walked over to the spring and take a sip. Everybody take a sip with me, please. And you see, he was amazed at how great this water tasted. I mean, it was cool and clear, as sweet as pear juice. He went ahead and took another sip. Ready?  And he felt so much better, I mean, more refreshed than he had felt in years. And when he stood up, he realized that this pain in his neck was gone. This ache in his back was gone, too. He felt so strong and healthy, he started to collect some wood, some kindlings, right then and there. And he made himself a big bundle of wood in no time. And when he lifted the whole thing up onto his shoulder,  He was surprised how light it felt, and he ran down the mountain to go home. Ready? Three claps. Inochi no mizu ojiisan ga Inochi no mizu mitsuketa Inochi no mizu obasan ga  Inochi no mizu ageyou. Wife, look how much firewood I got for you. Masa shouted as he ran into the house, and he almost bumped right into Yoshi. Yoshi went, and she looked really frightened. In a trembling voice, she said, hoo, hoo.  Who are you and what do you want? What are you saying, Yoshi? It's me. Stay back. I don't know who you are, but my husband will be here any minute. What are you saying, Yoshi? I am your husband. I mean, hello. Don't you know who I am?  But just then, Masa took a glimpse of his own face in a bucket of water nearby, and it was his turn to go . Because you see, what he saw was not his old wrinkled face,  but a handsome-looking young man, about 20 years old, with smooth skin, strong muscles, and shining eyes. This is me? What happened to me? It must have been the water. It was a magic spring. Wife, you must believe me. The water up on the mountain made me young.  His wife looked at him suspiciously up and down and said, Well, you are wearing my husband's clothes. And you kind of look like my husband when we first got married 50 years ago. Masa, is this really you? Yes, it's me. And now you must come with me and drink the same water. Ah, you don't run fast enough. Here, I will carry you.  And he picked her right up and started to run back up the mountain. Well, it did take them a while to find the magic spring again, but they did find it. And when Yoshi took a few sips of the magic water, ready?  the water turned her into a beautiful 18-year-old girl. Her hair was long and shiny, her skin was soft and smooth, and both Masa and Yoshi were so happy, they hugged and kissed 1,000 times. Okay, everybody say, ew. Ew. Ready? Three claps.  Inochi no mizu, the old man found a spring. Inochi no mizu, what a delightful thing. Inochi no mizu, he gave his wife some too. Inochi no mizu, a dream come true. And now, Masa and Yoshi were a happy young couple.  But it did not take very long for their greedy neighbor, Kichi, to find out what happened. He came right over one day and made Masa and Yoshi tell him exactly where the spring was, saying, ah, if what you say is true, I can put all the water in bottles and sell them and make lots more money. You all think it's a good idea?  Well, Kichi went up the mountain right next day to look for the spring. And it took him all day to find it. But when he finally found it, you see, the water looked so cool and inviting, he said, hmm, maybe I should take one sip to make sure if it works. And he took a sip. Ready? And you see, the water tasted so great, he said, hmm, maybe I should take just one more sip.  Just one more, just one more. Definitely just one more. Who cares? And because he was greedy, he did not know when to stop.  Well, Old Man Kichi did not come home that night. So by next morning, Masa and Yoshi were worried, so they went up the mountain to look for him. But when they came to the magic spring, they did not see Old Man Kichi. What they saw instead was a baby, a cute little baby boy wrapped in Kichi's clothes.  Well, Masa and Yoshi took the baby home to take care of him, and they raised him as if he was their own son. And guess what? This time, Kichi did not grow up to be greedy and mean. He turned out to be gentle and kind, just the way his parents were to him. And that's the end of that one. Thank you.  Thank you. Well, I'd like to tell you a story about the most important sport in Japan. What do you suppose are the three most important sports in Japan?  Oh, that's very good, yes. The most important sports in Japan is sumo wrestling. Everybody say sumo. Sumo. Very good. The second most important sport is? Baseball. Baseball. We all love Shohei Otani, I think. And the third one is the? Soccer. Soccer, right? Yes, I always tell children if they're good at playing soccer, they should go to Japan and be a professional. We have super women's team and pretty good men's team as well.  But sumo wrestling, how many of you have seen it on YouTube? Sumo wrestling means that those great, big, each person weighing somewhere between 300 pounds and 600 pounds muscles and fat wrestling each other in this arena. Sumo wrestling, in sumo wrestling, do they punch?  No. Do they kick? No. Do they scratch? No. Do they bite?  No, they're not supposed to do anything like that. So it's very different from the American style wrestling that you may sometimes watch on television. Those people, sumo wrestlers, are not supposed to use bad language. They're not supposed to say anything whatsoever. And they're not supposed to hit each other overhead with a chair or anything like that. They have strict rules. If you broke just one rule just one time, you'll be disqualified forever.  So as you may know, sumo wrestlers are mostly not wearing all that much, except they're wearing these things just around their waist, and it's called mawashi. Everybody say mawashi. Mawashi. Which in English, I guess, is a loincloth. Say loincloth. A loincloth is a combination of belt and underwear. So you could look strong and decent at the same time.  A loincloth could be blue. It could be green. It could be red, orange, yellow, purple, black, white, gold, silver. It could be any color. Well, so sumo wrestling started. Like I said, it's very different from American wrestling. It started about 1,000 years ago as part of a celebration for the rice harvest.  And to this day, it's all about two things. One, sumo wrestling is about respect. Okay? And two, self-control.

[2817.155 - 2817.495] SPEAKER_03: Okay?

[2817.815 - 3524.707] SPEAKER_02: So that's how the tradition lives on in Japan. When those people wrestle, the referee and the audience would say these words that I would love for you to learn and say with me. Say it like this. Hakkeyoi. Hakkeyoi. Nokotta nokotta.  means go for it. means stay inside the ring, because if you step out of the ring, you lose. So here's my favorite sumo wrestling story, and it's called the Sumo Mice and the Power Rice.  Once upon a time, a long time ago in Japan, there lived an old couple, an old man and an old woman who loved each other very much. Wait a minute, didn't I say this before?  Do you know why so many folk tales from Japan start with once upon a time there was an old couple? I can just tell you half a dozen stories like that, but do you know why? Because long time ago, it was the grandparents' responsibility to tell stories to children.  Because the parents are busy outside the house working, right? So it fell upon the grandparents' shoulders to always tell the children stories. And then, naturally, because they were the storytellers, they want to put themselves in the stories, right? It only makes sense, right? So that's why most of the stories have either very old people or very young people or animals. Yeah, so that's why. Anyway.  Once upon a time, there was an old couple, an old man and an old woman who loved each other very much, and they were kind and hardworking, but they were also very, very poor. They never had enough money. They often did not have enough food to eat. They lived in this little shack at the edge of a forest.  But you see, the old couple were not the only people who lived in that tiny shack. A mouse lived in their ceiling. And at night, the mouse would come down into the kitchen to nibble things. But the old couple were so kind, they didn't even mind. As often as they could, they would leave scraps of food, you know, crumbs and stuff in the kitchen for the mouse to eat.  Well, one day, the old man was at the back of the house trying to find some tools when he heard these tiny, squeaky voices saying, So the old man found a crack in the wall, and he peeked outside. And there he saw two mice sumo wrestling in his backyard.  One of the mice was big and fat and strong. He obviously came from some rich house where there was plenty of food. The other mouse was the old couple's mouse. He was skinny and weak. So as the old man watched them, the big mouse kept pushing the skinny mouse onto the ground. But the skinny mouse never gave up. He kept challenging the big mouse, trying to wrestle better each time.  So when the old man saw this, he felt sorry for his own mouse, right? So that night, he told a story to his wife, the old woman. Then the old woman had an idea. She said, why don't we make sweet, delicious rice cakes for our mouse to eat so that he will grow fatter and stronger?  So together, they went and bought a little bit of sweet rice, and they steamed it, and they pounded it until it was very soft. And they made sweet, sticky, delicious rice cakes. They made each rice cake small so that it would be easier for the mouse to eat. They put them all on the plate and left them in their cupboard. The next morning, all the rice cakes were gone.  So the old couple kept making the rice cakes and feeding the mouse every night for one week. A week later, the old man again heard the tiny squeaky voices saying, So this time, he quickly called over the old woman, and together they peeked through the wall.  And this time, the two mice were well matched in their strengths. I mean, they were just as strong as each other. And they were having a great time wrestling each other. The rich mouse was getting tired, though. He said, .  How come you got so much stronger in just one week? What kind of special training have you done? I mean, what's going on? That's because my old couple has been feeding me power rice cakes. The poor mouse said proudly. The rich mouse said, power rice cakes? Are you serious? That sounds great. Can I come over tonight and join you for dinner?  And when the old couple heard this, they could not stop giggling. And that night, they made twice as many rice cakes. And also, the old woman made two sets of loin cloth out of scraps of red cloth, and they left them with the rice cakes in the cupboard. The next morning, the old couple again heard the tiny squeaky voices saying, .  Well, this time, the two mice were full of energy, and they looked great in their loincloths. The rich mouse said, man, those rice cakes were delicious, and these loincloths make us look so cool.  The poor mouse said, yeah, I know, but I feel a little bad. The rich mouse said, why? Why do you feel bad? The poor mouse said, well, it's because I know my old couple does not have a lot of money. I don't think they can afford to keep feeding us like this.  The rich mouse said, money? Do you mean those hard, shiny, golden things? My old man has plenty of them in his storehouse. He has so much money he complains every day that he doesn't even know what to do with it. So maybe tonight you and I can walk back to my house and carry some money back to your old couple's house.  So you see, the next morning, the kind old couple found plenty of gold coins in their cupboard, just enough for them to open up their own rice cake shop. And they made delicious rice cakes for everyone. And they all lived happily ever after.  Thank you. You guys are such a good sport. Sometimes when I tell that story to children, they would say, like, you know, but isn't that stealing? And of course it is, and we talk about it, you know. And yes, of course, stealing is bad.  But another question that I want them to think about is, how come that this old couple were so poor, even though they are nice people? And how come the neighbor was so rich that he had so much money he didn't know what to do with? So what makes that discrepancy the gap? And things like that with this story would turn their attention to those things.  Oh, yeah, another thing that they always ask me is, can girls sumo wrestle? And the answer now is yes. They don't do professional sumo wrestling, but there are many amateur women sumo wrestlers. And those women are big and strong and have pretty good amateur careers. In fact, there is even an American  a women's small federation or something like that out on the West Coast, I think either Oregon or Washington State, because it's important for American girls who are big to have athletic skills and confidence and things like that. Well, I wanted to finish this by singing you a song.  that I have written at the beginning of the pandemic as a special message to all the children in this pandemic time. And the song goes like this.  I've noticed you've been helpful. You always wash your hands. Thank you for your patience as grown-ups make some plans. Today you read a story and told it to your dad and gave your sister ice cream when she was feeling sad. We keep each other safe to get us through each day.  A little love and courage will help us find a way. So I thank you for doing the best that you can do. We'll get through this together and make your dreams come true.  Today you told a funny joke and made your brother smile. You also Skyped your grandma and listened for a while. It's OK to feel worried. It's normal to feel scared.  Grown-ups are not perfect. We're also unprepared. We keep each other safe to get us through each day. A little love and courage will help us find a way. So I thank you for doing the best that you can do. We'll get through this together and make your dreams come true.  Dawn will come to brighten even the darkest night. To keep us all safe and well, we must keep up this fight. To our heroes and sheroes, we owe our greatest debt.  Lessons that they taught us we never will forget. We keep each other safe to get us through each day. A little love and courage will help us find a way. So I thank you for doing the best that you can do. We'll get through this together and make your dreams come true.  Thank you, everyone. Thank you, and enjoy the rest of the festival.

[SPEAKER_04 - 3552.848] 3553.843: Thank you, Modico.

