[0.309 - 100.069] SPEAKER_02: begin for the evening. There is a wise philosopher. His name is Bruce Springsteen. And he said, you can't start a fire without a spark. And we've got that spark to start our show tonight. Now, in my opinion...  What we have imported to the United States of America from Japan, well, there are three that are absolutely the best of everything. And they are Honda automobiles, sushi, and MotoCo.  Motoko is such an artist at presenting her stories. They have such precision that you feel like you're at a Japanese tea ceremony. She has been described as demure and gentle and quiet and kind, and she is all of those things, that's true. But as I have met her and worked with her over the years, I've also learned that she is tougher than woodpecker lips.  So I'm going to ask you if you will do something for me, if you will help me say welcome to her in Japanese. Now, I know if you talk Southern like I do, it's going to be a little hard, but here's how you do it. You say yokoso. All right, ready, go. Yokoso. Yokoso. Motoso. Motoko.

[112.811 - 272.266] SPEAKER_06: And good evening, everyone. It is a pleasure and honor to be here. How many of you have never done anything against your parents' wishes?  Now, that's the biggest lie I told today. Maybe I should be in a liar's contest, right? As you may know, I grew up in Osaka, Japan, and I came to Massachusetts as an exchange student to University of Massachusetts in the mid-'80s.  And my parents had a mixed feeling about me coming to America. They wanted me to get good education, but they thought America would be a dangerous and scary country.  So the day I left, my father saw me off at the airport. But right before I went through the gate, my father pulled me aside. He said, Motoko. What, Dad? You may go to America and get good education. But remember, no drugs and no men. OK, Dad. And I hopped on the airplane and came to UMass that was then called Zoo Mass.  where I met my future ex-husband. But I didn't do any drugs, so I thought one promise kept out of two was better than none. So here's my story. Once upon a time, a long time ago in Japan, there was a young woman who was about to get married.  Her name was Chiyo. Everybody say Chiyo. Chiyo was about to marry this young farmer who lived in a faraway village all the way across the big river. But the night before her wedding, Chiyo's mother called to her and made her sit right in front of her and said, listen, Chiyo.  Once you marry, you belong to your husband's family. You cannot just come back here whenever you want to. Do you understand this? Yes, mother, she offered timidly.  Now listen, Chiyo. Always obey your husband and treat your mother-in-law with utmost respect. Think of her as your own mother and don't ever be rude. If you did anything rude, you would embarrass me and put this family to shame. Do you hear me?

[273.306 - 274.247] SPEAKER_05: Yes, mother.

[276.556 - 720.226] SPEAKER_06: Chiyo and the farmer were married the next day. And as it turned out, her husband was kind and hardworking, her mother-in-law gentle and generous. So Chiyo started to work hard, cooking meals, cleaning the house, doing the wash, feeding the chickens and the pigs, and taking very good care of her elderly mother-in-law.  But as days and weeks passed, the mother-in-law began to notice that Chiyo was often tired and even sick. Many a time, she would ask her, my dear Chiyo, are you feeling all right? Is there anything I could do for you? But every time, Chiyo would say, oh, my dear mother-in-law, I am fine. Please do not worry about me.  And yet, as weeks and months passed, Chiyo began to look more and more sickly and finally began to look pale.  One day, the mother-in-law could not take it any longer. She said, my dear Chiyo, you have been such a perfect daughter-in-law. I care about you as if you're my own daughter. If there's anything wrong, you must tell me, please. Oh, my dear mother-in-law, I am so sorry to worry you like this. It's nothing. I am fine. It's just...  I just cannot tell you because this might offend you badly. Nothing would offend me. Chiyo, please tell me. Now Chiyo's face turned beet red. She shifted this way and that and seemed to hesitate a great deal. Finally, she said, well, it's just sometimes I have this urge to pass wind.  Oh, I know that is so terrible. That is why I have been holding it in. What? Do you mean gas? Is that it, Chiyo? Oh, I am so sorry, my dear mother-in-law. Please forget what I said. I'll be fine just the way I am. No, no, Chiyo. Don't be ridiculous. Come on, we are family. You can pass gas if you like. Go ahead and let it go.  Are you sure? Oh, with your kind permission then, I think I will. Excuse me, my dear mother-in-law.  And Chiyo stood up, lifted her kimono, and let it go. What followed was a tempest of biblical magnitude. The roof was gone. The walls crumbled. The furniture broke into bits. The mother-in-law flew off. The chickens, the pigs, and the neighbor's children, they all swirled around all over the village.  When the farmer came home, he was amazed at this colossal destruction. Then his neighbor brought his mother home. He had found the woman in a tree ten miles down the road. But luckily, the mother wasn't hurt. Mom, what is this? What happened to our house? Well, son, it's your wife and her gas. She's been holding in. What? Where is Tio now?  Oh, I don't know. She must have run away. Son, you must go and find her. So the young farmer ran down the road that led to Chiyo's home village. He caught up with her just in time, right before the big river. Chiyo, where are you going? You must come home with me. No, never. How can I ever go back after what I have done?  Oh, Chiyo, it's all right, don't worry. I can fix the house. Trust me, everything will be all right. Well, after that, they decided to hold once a week special occasion for Chiyo.  So once every week, they would open up the Shoji screen doors, they removed the furniture, they evacuated the chickens and the pigs, and they tied the neighbors' children to trees. And the grown-ups would hug the poles, and Chiyo would let go.  And now they have made it into a weekly ritual. There was hardly any more damage to the house, and Tio felt much better, and so did everybody else. But before I say they lived happily ever after, there's a little bit more.  One day, Chiyo was hurrying home from the marketplace when she came upon a group of people gathered around a tall pear tree. Now, all those people were finely dressed, but amongst them, she saw a little boy crying. So Chiyo went over there to inquire what was going on. Well, our prince here would love to eat some of those delicious pears, but we cannot get to them, one of the ladies said.  Well, it was an unusually tall and slender tree. All the fruit were well out of reach. And yet the trunk and the branches of the tree were so thin and delicate, you could not climb the tree without breaking and ruining it. But I really, really want those pears, the little prince wailed.  Well, perhaps I can get them for you. Really, you could? Please, please, if you did, my father will give you a big reward. Well, all right. But first, all of you must walk over there and hold tight onto the fence.  Well, by this time, Chiyo had gained such control over her power that the gentle wind shook the tree just so, and all the ripe fruits landed on the ground. Wow, you're amazing, the little boy cried. And of course, the boy's father, the king, rewarded Chiyo handsomely for the kind deed she did for his son.  And after that, Chiyo began to discover more and more creative usages for her newfound power. Like when the emperor in the capital city wanted to demolish his old palace in order to build a new one, Chiyo was there. When they flew Japan's first hot air balloon, Chiyo was there.  and eventually Chiyo's name became famous throughout the country and Chiyo and her family lived happily ever after. May this story gently uplift your spirits.

[732.462 - 872.971] SPEAKER_02: I told you, she's a gas, isn't she? So the next storyteller we got coming up here was also imported to the United States. Things were kind of rough for her back when she was just a four-year-old Cuban refugee feral child. She was plunked down, speaking very little English,  in the Bible buckle of America, Decatur, Georgia. Now that's scary. I'm a southerner and I can say that is scary. Decatur, Georgia? But you know, once she got her southern legs underneath her, and once she got her drawl perfected, everything that girl touched, everything that she took into her heart and her mind, well,  She got the Midas touch. It all turned to gold. I got a list of things that when she put her mind to it, it was gold. So there's storytelling, there's publishing, there's keynoting, there's workshopping, there's marrying. Well, not everybody gets it right the first time.  Or the second. But the third time's a charm, right? Amen. There he is, the golden guy back there. And it went on. I mean, mothering, she got that perfect three times in a row. Grandmothering, cooking, mentoring, sponsoring. The list goes on and on and on, but I'm not going to.  I'm just going to say this. Those of us who don't have the uniqueness, the talent, the charm, the beauty that she has, well, we get just a little bit jealous every now and then. And if we had our way about it, we'd just send Will Smith up here to slap her. I'm kidding. We love you, Carmen. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome her to the stage, Carmen Deedy.

[891.178 - 892.399] SPEAKER_10: God has a sense of humor.

[899.325 - 901.527] SPEAKER_02: We didn't plan it.

[901.647 - 1304.208] SPEAKER_10: We didn't even know. We didn't just buy the same shirt. We wore it to the same festival. We didn't just wear it to the same festival. We wore it the same night. You look right cute in it.  So the verger...  At St. Paul's Cathedral, and those of you who may not be familiar with all things Anglican, the verger is basically an elevated custodian. The verger had worked at St. Paul's Cathedral for several years and was highly regarded. He was hardworking and a good person. Well, one day, there was a visiting cardinal, and there was a note left on the man's coat. Now, the note said, do not touch this coat. Well, the verger had...  He picked it up, looked at the note, and then took it away and hung it up. See, the problem was he couldn't read. So when there was a last-minute search for this coat, well, you know, fall guy, the poor verger lost his job. Don't look all broken up about this, people, okay?  Right? Like you've never been there. The one at the bottom of the totem pole. And he didn't want to tell anybody that he had lost his job because he couldn't read. And so he stepped out of St. Paul's Cathedral and he patted himself down like a good Brit. He was looking for tobacco. Like you've never walked out of a church and had a smoke. See, you want to laugh, but you don't want to laugh.  And he's looking around and he's thinking, wait a minute. He observes that there's not a single tobacconist within a good ten minute walk. Being an enterprising man, he thought, well then. He had saved a little money. He'd newly married. He had a wife. But both of them were thrifty. This is going somewhere. Stay with me as far as you'd like to.  He started a little tobacconist stand outside of St. Paul's Cathedral. Who was going to stop him? He made brisk business. Evidently, you know, the confession of sin and the committing of sin, they just bounce back and forth and back and forth and back and forth and back and forth. One turned to five, five turned to ten. Children came. It could now be easily afforded. By the time that he was an old man...  London was littered with his tobacconist shop, and he was a very wealthy man. He let his sons take care of all of his business. But one day, he was called to the Bank of England. The Bank of England.  he was taken to the president's office. The man looked at this wee little man now. He's quite aged and frail, and he says, do you have any idea how much money we have in this bank? I only deal with your sons. He said, oh, no, I'd let the boys take care of that.  He said, but you understand, you're one of the 20 wealthiest men in all of England. That much? I said, yes. And I've brought some papers. They're things I want to discuss with you, not with your sons. I think they're investments you could make. If you would just look them over. Oh, boy. He stepped back and said, no, no. He said, just for a moment. Just read them, please. That's your leisure. And he was an honest man.  He was a little embarrassed, but he said, I can't read. What? I can't read? Good God, man, you can't read? And you're one of the wealthiest men in England? Can you imagine what you would be if you could read? And he said, yes, I'd be Virgil at St. Paul's Cathedral. Question, not your fate.  All right, 10 minutes. My mother. Yeah, yeah, easy for you to say. She's so funny. So my mom.  This is many years ago, many years ago. I show up at the house and I'm hoping that she's cooking because she could just, oh my goodness, whether it was savory or sweet, whether it was arroz con leche or arroz con pollo, oh, you'd walk in that kitchen and I mean, even the wallpaper was like scratch and sniff. But that day, the stove was cold, the woman was hot, and my father had gone to hide in the garden. I said, what's going on here?  I want to change the wallpaper. And I looked around and I saw that she had started to peel the old Magnolia wallpaper off the wall. The paper of my childhood. Heartless woman. I said, Mom, when are you going to replace it? Oh, it took me a while, but look, she found the exact same Magnolia wallpaper. And I said, oh.  All right, fine. You want me to help you? But then, tell you what, I'll help you cook tonight. No, no, no, no, no. Let's just get the paper down. Hand me that spatula thing, okay? It's by the window. The window. Say it with me like you are Cuban, okay? The window. You did not even try. And where are your fingers? The window.  Now, I don't know if I was just kind of, you know, hangry and particularly irritable that day, but I turned to her and I said, Mommy, it's not a window. It's a window. How long have you lived in this country? I don't know. Maybe my American daughter can tell me. Ma, seriously. Come on. You know enough English. I know you can say window.  And I am not translating once again, okay? Let me tell you something, hija mía. I have left my country. I thought, oh, my God, I know this story so well. Oh, I could do it with her. I mean, we could make a whole song and dance routine out of this. I left my mother. I left my country. I left my language.  And now you are going to teach me English. Well, let me tell you something, mijita. If I could say, I would.

[1325.538 - 1408.577] SPEAKER_02: Apparently it looks better with a scarf here. Now, our next storyteller is not an import to the United States of America. Well, not unless you count that far frozen north land of Michigan.  Or as they call it in Game of Thrones, the land of the wildlings. Now, Jeff Doyle says that he comes from a multi-talented, multi-tasking family. He says they can smoke, drink, sweat, and swear all at the same time.  His theory of storytelling is that everybody should have fun. And so he's not afraid to be as goofy as he can be to make kids laugh. He's not afraid to be as creepy as he can be to scare the pants off old people.  But whatever he does, he does it with optimism, with honesty, and with a smile that will blow out an electrical grid. So ladies and gentlemen, hold on to your Fruit of the Looms. Here he is, Jeff Doyle.

[1420.202 - 2033.926] SPEAKER_04: All right.  Colleen and I upgraded the technology at our house this past year. We got a new computer, I got a new cell phone, and we bought a new car. Now, I don't normally or you wouldn't normally think of a car as high technology, but if you have driven a new car lately or ridden in a new car, those things are loaded with technology.  Well, we decided on the model we wanted. We found it online and then we went down to the car lot where we met Buffy, our new car sales person. She was young and perky and cute and eager to sell us a car. She showed us all of those exterior features and why we should have that model. And then she opened the driver's door and she let me get in to the cockpit.  which is what it felt like when I climbed down into it. And then Colleen got in the passenger seat, Buffy got in the back, and they closed all the doors, and they said, you are in the cocoon of quietness. And then she showed us all the features. There was a backup camera. It had been a while since we had a new car, and I thought, well, that's good. I won't run over any kids backing out of the driveway.  And then above that was the stereo, and it had all this metadata on it. It told you the band, the song, the year it was written, the dog's name, his mother's name, where he lived, what kind of Fruit of the Loom underwear he wore.  It was fantastic. And then there was the GPS. It would tell you which way to go, alternate routes. And then when you drove the wrong way, it would change your route and tell you how stupid you are. And then on the dash was a place for, you know, to put your cell phone. And up on the mirror was the satellite communication station.  There was a little red button up there. Buffett said, only push that in cases of dire need. Good to know. And then there were buttons and switches all over this thing. I thought I was driving the space shuttle. Well, we made a deal to buy the car. We went into the, signed all the papers, and then she took that to the guy in the other room. Who is this guy?  And while she did that, she gave us a survey to fill out. Why did you want a new car? Well, we needed something that got better mileage, and we need a new car. And then there was, you know, the other data, like how many kids you got, and age category. There was 18 to 26, 27 to 37, 38 to 55. And then the last category was baby boomer backslash senior citizen.  I looked over at Colleen. Her eyes were all twisted up. She was going to tell Buffy what she could do with that car. I'm looking to see how we sign that, actually. I told Colleen, I said, we already bought the car. Don't worry about it. We gave the survey to Buffy. She came back and she said, Mr. and Mrs. Doyle, have I got a deal for you.  Since you checked that box, people of a certain age, we are running a beta test program to see if people in your age category can handle the technology in the new car. I thought Colleen might explode right there next to me.  And she said, you get a brand new 5G cell phone for free.  Well, I'm kind of cheap and I needed a new cell phone. So I said, okay, what do I got to do? She said, all you got to do is fill out a few surveys every month. So I said, all right. So we took the car and the cell phone home. And the first thing I did was I gave the cell phone to my son and he programmed in the sexy voice. Hello. I kind of like the sexy voice.  Colleen was a little irritated about the sexy voice, and I just told her, well, I'm a baby boomer. I can't fix that. I can't correct that.  What I was really excited about was that Buffy had told us that the car and the phone act as your personal assistant, and it does hands-free programming. So I waited until I was on taking a long trip, and I was outside of town before I pushed the button. I didn't want to be a distracted driver, and then I pushed the button, and she said, Would you like to turn Star on?  I mean, with a voice like that? I mean, who wouldn't want to? Yes. And then she said, name, please. So I said, Jeff. And she must have thought I was speaking a foreign language and that the J was silent because she said, hello, F.  But, you know, she was a beta program, and it would be okay, right? And then she said, F, say a command. I've waited my whole life for a woman to say that to me. Well, I wanted to program the number for the office, so I said, program, and she said, number, please. And I said, one.  She said, not a valid number. One. Not a valid number. One. Not a valid number. One. Not a valid number. One. Not a valid number. Not a valid number. Not a valid number. Buffy was right. I couldn't do it. I couldn't figure out the technology in the new car.  And then she said, it's okay, F. We'll try again later. I mean, like I've never heard that before.  And then I drive down the road a little bit, and I think, well, maybe I'm just being old-fashioned. Maybe I don't need a one. So, program, turn our star on. Yes, yes. Number, please. And I say, eight. She says, eight. And the next number is one, so I'm on pins and needles. One, one, zero, zero, two, two, two, two, nine, nine, seven, seven, seven, five, oh, oh, five, five. Number complete. I said, thank you.  And she said, no, thank you. I thought we were done, but apparently she wasn't satisfied. And she said, name. Like I said, I was trying to program the number for the office, so I said office. And she said, orifice.  Office. Orifice. Office. Orifice. Office. Orifice. Office. Orifice. And then I said, office not orifice. Office not orifice. Office. Office not orifice. Office. Office not orifice. Office. Office. Office not orifice. Office not orifice. I rolled down the window.  her up off the dash and as I threw her out I said screw it office not orifice and you know what she said screw it office not orifice apparently in all my anger my knuckle hit that little red button  Up on the mirror, emergency service contacted. No. It's okay, F. They'll be here soon. F, F, F. I shouldn't have said it. Then a real person came on and said, Mr. Doyle, there's no need to be rude.  Luckily, the very expensive cell phone was dangling outside the window because it had a cord shoved up one of its orifices. I'm an expert user of the phone in the car now. I have filled out all of my surveys.  But if you hear me this weekend say screw it, Office Not Orifice, don't take offense, I'm just trying to check my voicemail.

[2052.821 - 2172.507] SPEAKER_02: If you feel a little guilty about laughing at that, you should. But if you had fun, tomorrow at 1 o'clock and 10 on the hill, Jeff is going to be doing a set called Sometimes Naughty. So, yeah, you want more? Go on over there.  Okay, our next storyteller, as it turns out, is another immigrant to the United States of America. And she is the ebullient Noah Baum. I think I pronounced that right. Didn't I, Noah? Did I get it? All right. All right, so here's what...  I want you to know about her. Noah was born in the city of Jerusalem, and I've been told that if you pronounce Jerusalem correctly, as it would be in Hebrew, then the last two syllables sound like shalom, which of course means peace.  And it just so happens that the name Noah also means peace or rest. And so it should be no surprise that a girl named Peace, who was born in a city called Peace, and then who immigrated to the United States and ended up in Washington, D.C., which means perpetual conflict.  that she would be inclined to tell stories that build bridges between worlds that have stopped talking to one another. That's exactly who she is. Sometimes she talks about peace with grace, with honesty. She always does it with poignancy, and she always makes us believe that it's possible. Please welcome her to the stage, Noah Baum.

[2185.123 - 2821.703] SPEAKER_08: This is not me, it's what's left of me after Jeff just killed me. Whoa. Well, I had every reason in the world to be perfectly happy.  I had a beautiful baby girl. I had a nice husband. And I was in America. Everybody envied me for going to America. America is the land of dreams. I was sure I was going to be perfectly happy in America. America is going to be so great. And I was miserable.  I was miserable. There I was on the couch, actually the futon that we got in a garage sale.  Sitting on that couch in our student housing apartment in Davis, California. TV's on, but I'm not really watching. Baby just fell asleep on the futon right next to me. There's the dishes and the laundry and dinner to fix, and I cannot get up from that couch. I'm just feeling so heaviness, such heaviness in my heart. You see,  I left Tel Aviv, cosmopolitan, bursting with life, Tel Aviv, Israel, to follow my American husband to this dusty, dry, flat Davis. Davis, California.  I left a job teaching drama at a special education school. I was teaching two courses at a teacher's college. I was touring all over Israel as a puppeteer and storyteller. I had friends, family, language, culture. And here, nothing. I'm alone, a foreigner.  trying to start all over again, a storyteller in a language not my own. Everything that came naturally is suddenly hard. I'm looking words up in the dictionary. I'm memorizing things. I'm translating from Hebrew, and on top of that, I don't even have time for it because I'm with a baby all day long, and my husband is at the university working on his PhD.  and our marriage is on very rocky ground and I just spend my days on that futon wondering, what have I done? Where do I belong? What happened to my career? How can I even be a mother when I'm so messed up?  I was 34 years old, and I felt invisible, a lost little girl just wishing somebody would tell me what to do, just fix it for me already. And right there, there was an open magazine on the floor right near my hand. You remember it was a futon?  I had recently joined the National Association for the Preservation and Perpetuation of Storytelling. Do you remember that? Today called the National Storytelling Network. It was the monthly magazine. And there was the version of an old folk tale. I didn't pick it up from the floor. I just read it with my eyes.  And then I found myself reading it out loud, well, quietly, not to wake the baby. It was about a woman, you see. She was walking out of the village to the hut of the old one at the edge of the village. They said he had magical powers and she needed help. She walked in and bowed in respect. He was sitting, gazing at the fire before him. She said,  They said that you could make magic potions to bring the love back into the heart. My husband, it's not been the same since he came back from the war. It's hard. Nothing I do works. Please, can you make me a magic potion to bring the love back into the heart? The old man looked at her.  Then he nodded. He said, I can make a magic potion for you, but you'll need to do something. I'll do anything. You'll need to bring me a whisker from a live lion. A whisker from a live lion. But I'm a woman. I'm only a woman.  But he already turned his gaze to the fire, and it was clear the interview was over. And so she returned home. And she lay awake all that night, tossing and turning, thinking, how in the world could she do something like this?  Yes, you know, she heard that somewhere high up in the mountains above the village, there were lions sometimes. Occasionally you could hear a roar at night, but the sound of the roar was enough to send shivers down her spine. The thought of getting close enough to such a wild thing. But she so wanted things to change. So she got up the next day.  She took up a piece of raw meat and she wrapped it in some cloth and she walked out of the village into the mountains. And she walked along the winding paths all that day. She walked for hours until she came to a place where high up on the cliffs she could see the mouth of a dark cave. And not far she could hear the sound of water running in the river.  And she thought to herself, if there is a lion that lives up in that cave, he'll have to come to the water at some point. So she lay in the bushes and she waited. And she waited for a very long time. And as the sun began to set, she heard it. A roar.  And there she saw a huge line with a black mane coming down from those cliffs. And her heart started to pound so fast and so loud. She got up. She threw that piece of meat as far as she possibly could. She didn't wait to see where it landed. She turned and she ran as fast as she could away from that place.  The next day, she took another piece of meat, and she came to that same place, and she lay in the bushes, and she waited. And as the sun began to set, she saw that line come down in the distance, and she got up, and she threw that piece of meat as far as she could, and she forced herself to stand there long enough and see that it landed, and only then she turned and ran back home.  And the next day she went to that same place again with another piece of meat. And this time she forced herself to stand there long enough to see that the lion was pouncing on the meat. And then she turned and ran back home.  And she came to that place day after day, week after week for six months. And every day she inched her way closer and closer and closer to that lion until by the end of six months, he was eating from her open hand. And it was then that she bent and gently plucked a whisker. Thank you.  And she ran, and she burst into the old man's hut. I did it! A whisker from a live lion! He took it and he examined it. Indeed. Tell me, how did you obtain it? And so she told him how she found a place where the lion comes to the water and how she went there day after day for six months until at the end the lion was eating from her hand. The old man listened, and he nodded. And then...  Without a word, he threw the whisker into the fire. What are you doing? The magic potion, you promised! He looked at her and smiled. Oh, but a woman, a woman strong enough to tame a lion has no need for a magic potion.  And with that, he turned to gaze at the fire. She returned home. And I, I got up from the couch.  I knew I had to tell that story. At first, I just walked around that tiny little apartment just talking to myself. I didn't need to look words up in the dictionary. I didn't need to memorize anything. I just told it and told it and told it. And every time I told it, a little bit of the heaviness lifted from my heart. And that little story became my secret talisman.  reminding me again and again, especially when times are hard, that I don't need a magic potion to face the challenges in my life. So here it is. I offer it to you, a small whisker, to remind us all that here we are.  Here we all are, not because of a magic potion, but because we have tamed many lions. May we continue to tame lions, and may we continue to carry the fire of stories into the world. Thank you for being part of that.

[2838.533 - 2939.757] SPEAKER_02: Now, if you have always wanted to tell a personal story from your own life, Noah is going to be doing an online workshop, virtual. And you can find out more about it on her website, or there's also some flyers over in the merchandise tent. Her workshop is called Storytelling, Yes, You Can. So take a look for that. Our next storyteller is a guy...  that I met back in the 1980s. That was when all of his hair was still on top of his head. His name is Bill Harley. Yeah, I know. Okay, Bill Harley. Ooh, say it with me. Ooh. Yeah, I know the feeling. Every time I see him, he builds up my buttercup.  My buttercup's pretty full after this many hours of storytelling today. But we can always use a little more. Bill Harley, well, he's innovative. He's sometimes irreverent. But his storytelling soul is pure.  Bill has two Grammys and a whole host of other awards, and I know he's proud of that, and rightly so. But you can tell that what Bill loves most in the world is performing for a live audience. So show him some love, welcome him up here, Bill Harley.

[2951.314 - 3414.916] SPEAKER_03: Hi, guys. Doing all right? Not done yet. We're just starting. I hate this guitar because I can't plug it in very well. OK. Well, I just would like to thank Motoko and Jeff for lowering the bar.  I was sitting back there going, I just don't know if this thing's going to work tonight. And I was like, Monaco finished. I said, yeah, maybe. And Jeff finished and said, I am golden. Anyway.  While cleaning out the attic a little while ago, sorting, wondering, choosing what to keep and what to throw, I came upon a box of things from the bedroom of my son, papers, books, and trophies, honors that he'd won. And at the bottom of the box, wrapped in a strap of cotton, I came upon the strangest thing that I had quite forgotten.  The sight of this old relic had set my mind aglow. And soon I was remembering those many years ago. My son signed up for Little League, much to his dad's delight, because I played baseball as a kid. And so it seemed but right that my son, too, would follow me upon the diamond's grass. But little did I e'er suspect what soon would come to pass.  For on the day his team first met, the coach lined them up and asked if someone there would volunteer to wear the catcher's mask. The other boys did hem and haw. Mine did not hesitate. He raised his hand and said he would, unworried of his fate. Well, it seemed to make some sense to me because I knew my son. He liked to catch. He liked to throw. But he didn't really like to run.  Perch behind the plate at home, he wouldn't have to hurry, and his gentle winning ways would soothe the pitcher's worry. So I was proud, yes, that day as we turned to go. But then Coach called out to me, Bill, there's something you should know. If Dylan would wear the glove and mask, the tools of ignorance, it's also true that he must wear a certain something beneath his pants.  The boy is just a lad of nine, a bright future growing up. If he's going to sit behind the plate, he needs to wear a cup. A cup, a cup, surely you jest. He's just a boy. A cup does seem like overkill that we need not employ. Dems to rules, the coach replied. You can look him up. We need a man behind the plate, and he needs to wear a cup.  So we found ourselves in Megastore, a Roman down the aisle. I told the clerk about our quest. He couldn't help but smile. He said, of course, although that boy, he's just a pup. From the looks of him, a lad so young, he needs a junior cup. He led us past the bats and balls and other sports equipment. He stopped and pointed at the racks, and there's the latest shipment. It was a wee small thing he held up to our sight.  about an English muffin size. He said, this just seems right. We paid the bill. We headed home. I come, and the son-in-law had the tools to safely sit behind the plate and protect the family jewels. At home, my wife said, you show them. That's your job. I can't bear it. This whole thing was your idea. You tell them how to wear it. He put it on. It was a curse fashioned by some evil tailor. It was then I knew why catchers did waddle around like sailors.  A bow-legged stride, a crabbed gait, the cup did surely ask for. But when he sat behind the plate, he would not face disaster. And so the season did begin with Dylan in the crouch. Of every pitch, a pitcher pitch, I never heard an ouch. Dylan had a steady eye. He caught most balls they pitched, though he sometimes reached there down below to get it where it itched.  And though some balls did bounce and bump, he never was abused, and that little piece of plastic ne'er had cause for being used. Until...  One final day, the season near its end, it was Dylan's turn to bat against his closest friend. A kid who had a fastball that could leave the batters crying. Only nine that could throw like a Clemens or a Ryan. Dylan grabbed his crotch just like a pro to get it where it itched.  stepped into the batter's box, he waited for the pitch, and then his best friend Davey readied through the throw. He went into the windup, he let the baseball go, the birds all chirped, the infield sang, the infield chirped in chatter, and now the leather-covered sphere came hurtling towards the batter, but it didn't cross the rubber plate or bounce there in the dirt. Instead, it hit my darling boy right there where it hurts.  Too late to dodge, too late to duck, he took it straight full on. And even as the ball arrived, someone cried, his future's gone. And at the sight of Christ sailed forth, the men all wept and moaned. The dad who served his empire let out a gruesome groan. But even then, the men all wept and gave their empathetic gasps.  A shot ran out like cannon fire across the summer's grass. It bounced off the bleachers, roared above the crowd, bounced off the, bounced off, what is it? Bounced off, bounced off the snack bar and sailed into the clouds. The ball burst from the batter's box off the young intrepid hitter. It bounded across the infield towards the shortstop. It did skitter.  We all looked at the batter, fearing for the worst. Dylan dropped the bat, stepped from the box, and headed down to first. It took more than a moment for those who watched it there to realize there was no need for a trip to urgent care. Dylan now stood safe at first, a smile upon his fate. He tipped his cat and reached down there to put the cup back in its place. And then a cry sailed forth,  And a cry sailed forth, yeah, joyous glad refrain, though some still bent in agony and sympathetic pain. It must be said some women there did neither squirm nor wiggle. Instead of showing sympathy, they only laughed and giggled.  And when the game was finished, all was said and done. The men all present stormed the field, each and every one. They surrounded there my darling boy, his praises they did sing. When they asked him how he was, he said, I didn't feel a thing. And so I held that plastic, thinking of my son so brave. And though some things I did throw out, there's one that I did save.  To pass on to a grandson should one chance appear. And if he wants to be a catcher, I've got protection here. For the world is filled of dangers, unkindnesses, and hate, and metaphoric fastballs that might debilitate. You never know what's coming or if your number's up. But if you're wise, take my advice and wear some kind of cup. Thank you.

[3431.264 - 3580.986] SPEAKER_02: Thank you, Emily Dickinson. Mercy. My mama told me there'd be nights like this. Well, our next storyteller, would you all like to take a break before I ask our next storyteller up here? Just take a deep breath. Do you need to stand up? No? No. Tell me. No. All right. Let's keep going then.  I want to bring up here to the stage a guy named Ray Christian. And this weekend is the first time I've actually met Ray in person, although he just lives over the mountain in Boone, North Carolina. But I have spent scores of miles with Ray Christian in my earbuds.  When I walk every day for the last few months, I have been listening to Ray. I listen to his podcast. I've listened to him on the Moth Radio Hour. And his stories are so powerful and so raw and sometimes it feels like so unvarnished. And yet somehow there's that humor in the stories that I just have to sit down on the curb to catch my breath.  And my neighbors think I need an intervention. But really, the only intervention that I need is to hear Ray Christian in person. And we're going to get to do that tonight. Recently, in one of the podcasts that I was listening to, he was being interviewed by a Lutheran pastor.  And he was telling this story about when he was a young, 20-year-old, untested, untrained sergeant in the U.S. Army. And he was put in charge of 12 young, untried, dysfunctional recruits who were totally clueless. And the Lutheran pastor said, Jesus had a job like that.  And Ray went on to tell this marvelous story. I feel like when I get to hear Ray tell stories in person that I have stepped into a holy place. Please help me welcome him, Ray Christian from Boone, North Carolina.

[3591.366 - 4146.623] SPEAKER_00: Oh my goodness, when I heard that last story, I immediately started to itch. I'm so self-conscious about it now, I just wanna turn around. How could you not? You got enough energy left to hear the last couple of stories? You still got that?  I love this kind of weather. You can't help but think when it gets cool like this that you want to cuddle with somebody you love. If you're sitting beside somebody right now and you're in love with them and you're not touching them, you're wrong. So give yourself a moment to think about that. I used to be a Boy Scout. I was a Boy Scout assigned to a very poor church in a very poor neighborhood. And I was the last kid  in the last scout patrol, in the last troop, to pay his fees to attend the big state Boy Scout Jamboree. And I was quite happy about that. Now, when we got to the Jamboree, one of the first activities that we participated in was the swimming test.  The swimming test determined what water activities you could participate in, be that canoes, rowboats, hiking around the water, fishing, or even being anywhere near the pool. So I watched hundreds of white Boy Scouts take that swimming test. Some didn't pass. Some did pass. Pretty normal range of people.  When it came time for my troop to take the swimming test, and we're all black, about 25 of us, not one of the boys in my troop passed the swim test. Now, I wasn't first to be tested, but I was somewhere near the end. The last activity as part of the swim test was to tread water.  The requirements were you had to tread water for two minutes, and they had a big old clock so you could look at it, and all the Scoutmasters who were in charge of the swimming activities would make sure that you were doing it long enough. They would point to you, tell you you could get out of the water. I'm the last kid in the pool treading water. Two minutes pass. I'm looking up. I made it, right? I'm okay, right? Scoutmaster says nothing.  Three minutes, I'm still treading water. He says nothing. Five minutes, I'm treading water. Ten minutes, I'm treading water, but now I'm depressed because I'm tired. I don't know how much further I got to go, but our scoutmaster had informed us, you don't say anything disrespectful to any of the other white masters here, not even something that could be interpreted in that way.  So I didn't say anything. And in about 15 minutes, I saw two of the Scoutmasters talking to one another. They were kind of animated. And then one of the Scoutmasters looks to me with some frustration in his voice, and he says, OK, get out of the pool. I did it. I passed. I'm the only black kid who's a swimmer. I can participate in the activities now. But that's not the way it worked.  Whenever I would go down to participate in the rowing of the boats or participate in the canoes and I wanted to swim, I'd immediately be stopped and told, wait a minute, you don't have a swimmer badge. And I was proud to take it out and show it to them. Yes, I do. I have one. But every time a Scoutmaster would say, you probably made that up. It's probably artificial because no black kids can swim. Get out of here.  So I couldn't participate in any of those activities, but I was allowed to go down to the pool. So I went to the pool, and I jumped in, and as soon as I did, all the kids in the pool got out of the pool. Some of the white Scoutmasters were complaining about it.  And then I saw one of the scoutmasters get really frantic, and he was yelling and screaming at me, and I thought something dangerous must be going on, because he jumped right in the pool, and I'm thinking, is there a snapping turtle in here, or an alligator, or something? Why is he so frantic like that? But I knew what the answer was when he slapped me in my face and he said, nigga, get out of the pool. Who told you you could be here?  As soon as I went to the scoutmaster, our black scoutmaster, to tell him what had happened, he immediately grabbed me by the collar and pulled me to the side and said, don't you say anything, anything, to jeopardize our placement here in this camp. You see, my scoutmaster grew up in the era of Jim Crow, and he figured I might say or do the wrong thing and get one of us killed. He was responding to me out of fear.  Well, one of the last activities that was taking place at the jamboree related to water was the prestigious one-mile swim. That was a hard merit badge to get. And if you lived in an urban area or you were from the city, this was a merit badge you probably weren't going to get. And what that required was all of us boys who showed up to take the test to try to get this merit badge, they would assign six of us boys to a rowboat.  And so if you got too tired or you couldn't make it, you wanted to give up, all you had to do was put your hand up, scream out, or just grab at the boat, and they would pull you inside. I was the last kid on the last boat to go because none of the boats would let me get on. The last boat had only like four people in it, so they really didn't have a choice. As the rowboats pulled out and they start,  We already know that it takes three laps around this huge lake to equal one mile. Now up to that point, I never had a chance to practice because swimming in a pool is not the same as swimming in a lake. The water feels different. It tastes different. It's almost a dangerous, unnatural feel and taste and smell to fresh water. So I had to get used to that like right away. I had like minutes to get used to that.  So we start with our first lap around the lake, and I'm already tired, but I've already noticed that the first cluster of boys has already given up, already started reaching for the boats, already started begging to get in. So first lap, half the boys who were participating have already stopped. The second lap occurs, and I'm even more tired, and more boys are getting back in the boats.  But I noticed the slick on the water. It's foamy, whitish, kind of yellowish. And I'm not sure what it is until I swim through it. Then I know. This is the taste of the powdered eggs we had for breakfast this morning. Would it help if I said it was a little bacon? Some grits? That wouldn't...  side of hash browns that wouldn't change the story at all. Okay. The very final lap, I'm already thinking in my mind, I'm going to give up. And what's encouraging me to give up is what the boys in the boats are saying. Most of the boys who had gotten out of the boats are now starting to say things to me like, get out of the water. You're not going to make it. It's not worth it.  Get out. Why waste your time? Get out. And they were reaching to me, putting their hands out. Grab my hand. Get in the boat. The Eagle Scouts were the ones rowing the boats. An Eagle Scout reached a paddle out to me repeatedly. Grab the paddle. Let me pull you in the boat. And I wouldn't do it. And it was just this chime of boys going, get out of the water. Get out of the water. Get out of the water. Now I'm at the point where I'm so tired  I can't even see straight. So I close my eyes really, really tightly. And I'm just stroking, stroking, stroking. My arms are like spaghetti. And at some point, I feel one of my feet touch the bottom. Then all of a sudden, with my eyes closed tightly, I felt all these hands and arms on me. And immediately, what I'm thinking is, these white boys are pulling me out of the water. I can't make it.  But when I opened my eyes, I saw what looked like a thousand little brown and black fingers grabbing me, and they pulled me out the water, and they were tossing me up in the air. So I wasn't the fastest. I wasn't the best looking. I wasn't the last one to ever do it. But on that day, in that place, at that time, one little black kid was first. Thank you.

[4166.516 - 4272.703] SPEAKER_02: You're going to want to hear more of Ray this weekend, aren't you? Well, I am about to introduce to you now a storyteller that I've had the pleasure of introducing more times than I can count over the years. And I've called her many different things over those years, and some of them she's liked. And some of them, not so much. To me, she will always be...  Lizard Breath Elizabeth. I think that's what I first called her maybe 35 years ago when I met her. But I also think of her as Mother Earth, the Yellow Rose of Texas, the Diva of Dallas, the Shaman of Storytelling, Southern Goddess, Soul Reviver,  Mentor, giver, friend. There's no one else I can think of who exemplifies better that scripture in the Gospel of Matthew that says, and I paraphrase, I was hungry and you fed me biscuits and gravy. I was naked and you gave me the shirt off your own back.  I was a stranger, and you took me into your circle of love, and you told me stories, stories that made me say, Lord, have mercy. I am not alone in this world. Please help me welcome the divine Miss E, Elizabeth Ellis.

[4272.723 - 5205.735] SPEAKER_07: I love you.  Lord, love a duck. Who could possibly live up to that? My gracious. E. Lizard Breath was my son Scooter's perpetual name for me. Every time I hear anybody say it, it makes me think of him.  My new boss at the Dallas Public Library said that we were no longer allowed to take the books before the patrons got them. It used to be that one of the few perks working at the library was that you got first crack at the brand new books. But that was over. Gone. Except that the...  bookshelf where the new books were processed was right beside the back door. I see that you already can tell that was a poor choice. So one day I took a bestseller off that shelf.  Love Story by Eric Siegel. And I stuck it in my bag. Beside it, there was a beautiful new book with lovely colored pictures called Easy to Grow Houseplants. I took it too. Might as well be killed for a sheep as a lamb.  After my kids went to bed that night, I read five or six pages in love story. It was really boring. And I couldn't imagine anything stupider than love means never having to say you're sorry.  Love had made me have to say I was sorry so many times I couldn't count. So I picked up the book of easy to grow house plants and I opened it up. It did have beautiful colored pictures. I killed one of those back in January.  I killed one of those in March. All the leaves fell off of that one. That turned yellow. And that wasn't supposed to be the color that it was. That one, I think it drowned. By the time I reached the last page of that book,  I realized that I had killed off at least one of every single thing that was listed in that easy-to-care-for houseplant book. And I had to face the truth about myself. I was a murderer. A serial killer. A serial killer of houseplants.  I found the idea so overwhelming that I got up from my chair and I walked out on the patio to get some air. I'd forgotten that my children called that part of our house Mama's Plant Graveyard. There was devastation and destruction every single place I looked. It was so depressing I went back into the house.  And in great Southern form, I began to try to rationalize the situation. A Southerner can rationalize anything, believe me. It's their fault that they died, I said. They don't make any noise. If they would learn to meow or bark,  I would take much better care of them. It's their own fault that they died because they don't make any noise. They should evolve or die. And they've obviously chosen death. It's their fault, not mine.  But there was just enough relationship with reality left that I decided then and there I was never, ever going to have any more houseplants because I didn't want to be responsible. When I bought the house that I live in now, it was surrounded by beautiful flowers.  By the time it was time to write the check for the first house payment, every one of them was stone cold dead. You see, in just one month's time, they had all died because I had gone to East Tennessee State to teach a session of summer school that lasted three of those four weeks.  And when I came back, they were all in the flower bed going... They were trying to speak, you could tell.  Now I'm here to tell you that good Christian people will look you straight in the eye and lie like a rug about whether or not they will water for you while you're gone from home. It's the truth. One way you can tell  See, when I came back after being gone for three weeks and I pulled up in my driveway and I opened the door of my car and stepped out, the grass underneath my, the brown grass under my feet squinched and my water, my shoe filled up with water. And I knew what had happened. You do too.  The night before, there had been a conversation that went something like this. Oh, my Lord, she's coming home tomorrow. We've got to run over there and water right quick. Too late to do the plants any good. At least they were trying to make an effort, but all the grass was brown, and like I told you, every single flower around the house was dead as a doornail. It was sad to look at,  I thought about those people I bought the house from. They must have watered every single solitary day. But I didn't become hysterical over it until the fall. You see, in the fall in Dallas, they tell you that's the time to set out shrubs and trees. And in my backyard, when I had come home from East Tennessee State, there was a silver Canadian maple tree.  that the former owners had planted. I'm gonna say that again so you can think about it for a minute. A silver Canadian maple in Dallas, Texas. Nobody with the sense that God gave a graham cracker would plant a Canadian silver maple in Dallas, Texas. Even if you watered every day, the heat would be bound to kill it off.  But one day, I opened the Sunday paper, and there was an ad from the very best nursery in Dallas, Calloway's. And it said that they had received a shipment of Canadian silver maple trees, and they were on sale for $50 per trunk inch.  And I realized that I had killed off a $350 tree. A $350 tree. You never knew my mother. There was frugal. And there was thrifty. And then there was my mom.  And I knew if anything could bring my mother straight up from dead out of the grave, it would be over the idea that I had murdered a $350 tree. I could hear a voice in the back of my mind. Do you know what you could do with $350? You could put it in the bank. It would earn interest.  $350? Who raised you? You know, when my son Scooter died, I decided that it was a ridiculous thing to get a headstone for somebody who'd lived the kindest life that Scooter had lived. Wild and free.  It made much more sense to me to plant a tree in his memory. Next door, there was a beautiful white oak. It looked like the grandfather of all trees. And so I went to Calloway's, and I spent the money to buy a really nice white oak sapling. The hole was dug.  I scattered Scooter's ashes in the bottom of that hole and we planted the tree in his memory to give his child a place to come and grieve for him and his sister and I a place to come and remember him. About three weeks later, I looked out my kitchen window. Most of the leaves had fallen off of Scooter's tree.  I walked out there and looked at it more closely. It was deader than a doornail, as dead as a scooter. I had always made fun of the kind of people who would go to the pet store and buy another goldfish to replace the goldfish that had died. I thought, what cowards they are that they won't tell their children the truth about what happened to the first goldfish.  But when I looked at Scooter's tree, I couldn't bring myself to tell my granddaughter that the tree that we had buried, had planted in her father's memory, had died. I just couldn't do it. And that's why I went back to Calloway's to look for another tree. I had a picture of the one we'd planted. It was on my phone. And I was telling the salesman, it needs to look like this.  He thought that was strange. You may think that's strange too, but that's okay. He told me he didn't have another white oak of any description. And so I ended up driving to Lowe's and looking at the trees that were there. And they didn't have any more white oaks either. Who knew that there'd be a run on white oaks?  But at Home Depot, I found one white oak left. It wasn't shaped like the tree that had been planted in Scooter's memory until I got the pruning shears out. And looking at the picture and doing a little judicious trimming, by the time my granddaughter arrived on Friday, she never noticed that it was a different tree.  So I want to make an apology to all those people that I made fun of because they lied about a dead goldfish. I turned out to be a bigger coward than that. I want to make sure you understand my current relationship with plants. I don't eat in fern bars. I'm afraid to go in there.  I'm afraid that you might hear them whispering. If they have developed the ability to speak, they would be passing the word to one another. She's the one. I recognize her. They tell stories about that woman. Kind of like Billy the Kid. She's had so many notches on her gun. She's killed off so many of our tribe. Get her.  So I don't want to go to eat in fern bars. I'm afraid if I do, you might find me at a back table somewhere near the patio with long vines wrapped around my neck and my tongue sticking out and my eyes bugged out and my face turning blue. And I'd be face down, probably in a salad.  I received an orchid for my birthday. Pray for it. It should be put in hospice. One, two, three. When you see these advertised on TV, don't make fun of them. They really work.

[5220.54 - 5330.805] SPEAKER_02: well now I know who I can ask to sit my plants when I'm gone next time Elizabeth I'll be calling well ladies and gentlemen that's it that's the end of our show we hope you've had a wonderful evening thanks for coming what what you're kidding that guy really  Oh, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but there is this, this is ludicrous. You're not going to believe it. But there's this guy, he's been wandering around town for the last week. And he wears flamboyant clothing, like bow ties with flamingos on them. And he thinks he can tell a story. Because, see, he has this rare condition.  where he remembers details about everything. Like, he can tell you every detail about his first day of first grade. And he can tell you exactly how many peas and carrots it takes to fill up a hollow table leg. And he can tell you a million ways to make your mother miserable.  He can tell you exactly how many steps it takes a mule to get from the top of the Grand Canyon to the bottom of the Grand Canyon. And you know what? Even at his advanced age, when he walks into a room, he remembers why he came in there.  All right, here he is, the anchorman, Donald Davis.

[5356.553 - 6013.703] SPEAKER_01: Thank you for bringing corporate laughter back to life today after we've missed it for these years. It's been so wonderful to stand up here and hear everybody laugh. This is a great thing. Thank you. It was 1963. I'd finished my freshman year in college, and I was headed back for my sophomore year.  But when we got back on campus, there was some kind of construction going on. It wasn't a new building. It was a new basement being dug under the end of the main classroom building. You see, IBM had leased to Davidson College a gigantic mainframe computer with the hopes that it would be purchased at the end of the year.  It was a monstrous thing. You remember the size of those mainframe computers. They had to build a huge room for it to fit in, and the thing had less computing power than your iPhone. But there was one thing that mainframe computer could do that an iPhone cannot do. It could keep from ringing in the middle of your story.  Well, pretty soon they got the thing up and running. They had some people who were, you know, converted from physics and math into teaching computer science and some new people on the faculty who were learning about Fortran and all kinds of stuff. And mythology began to grow about how, oh, when we go to register this year, there will not even be a schedule.  You'll just take all the courses offered, and you'll pick exactly what you want to take, and everybody will do that, and then that wonderful, marvelous computer will magically create a perfect schedule that will enable it to all fit and come out exactly right. You think that worked, don't you?  Well, another thing happened was the head of student counseling decided that with the help of some of those computer scientists, he could create a program where he could plug in your high school grades and your SAT scores and accurately predict what your grade point average would be. And I am very proud to say that I am one of only 82 students  who received an underachiever's letter. I missed. But it turned out okay because he, who was about 45 years old and had about a 22-year-old blonde wife, two weeks later, his wife ran off with the assistant football coach. And a whole bunch of us happily wrote him an underachiever's letter.  Well, pretty soon these guys on campus, now in those days at Davidson College, it was a men's college. Well, they said it was a men's college. It was actually a boys' college. And a lot of the guys on campus, some of them came up with this program they invented that was called Five Dates for $5.  They marketed it not just to us but to some other campuses around here and there and to a lot of the women's campuses around North Carolina and the north edge of South Carolina where you could pay your $5 and you got this long, long questionnaire. It was the first thing we ever had where you punched out little holes to answer the questions. And then the computer was going to eat it up and give back the answers. And it had all these questions you could lie about.  You know, like, what is your level of sexual experience? You know, and do you think you're attractive to the opposite sex? You know, you could just create this entire persona that had nothing to do with reality, and we never realized everybody else was doing exactly the same thing.  Well, my friend Bill, Bill was smaller than I was. I sang bass in the chorus and Bill sang tenor in the chorus. We paid our $5 and we went in and we filled out all the questionnaires and we turned it in and we waited to get back our magical list of five perfect dates for $5.  Bill and I went over to pick up the results, and when we read them, they were all at schools, you know, that were supposed to be within a couple of hours' drive of where we were. Bill and I each had a date with two different women on the same campus.  a little Methodist school about an hour and a half from where we were, and we decided the perfect plan was we would separately contact our two dates and try to make a plan to go at the same time together so we could safely take care of each other. And that way we would meet those first two perfect people on our list.  Well, I had a car. I'd worked for three years and saved every penny, bought my first car ever. Bill did not have a car. We got in it on Sunday afternoon, and we drove about an hour and a half, and we got to that campus, and it turned out that my date and his date lived in two different dormitories.  And so I took him over to where he was going, and then I showed him where I'd parked the car, and we'd meet back there in about an hour and a half. And then I crossed over the road and went over to the dormitory where I was going, and I went inside and presented this young woman's name, and I waited for her to come downstairs. At this point, telling the story becomes quite difficult because I like to be fair about  I don't know how big I was when I was a sophomore in college, but I do know that when I got my driver's license, I weighed 89 pounds. And when my day came down, she was taller than I was. Her shoulders were broader than my shoulders.  And we walked out the door and we started to walk. She was going to take me on a walk out around a little lake where we could look at beautiful things. And without my initiating anything, she reached down and she took hold of my hand. And her grip was stronger than mine was.  And but then she was telling me about how she was an only child who had grown up on a farm down in eastern North Carolina. And from the time she was born, she had worked side by side with her daddy on the farm. And her two favorite things in this entire world were plowing on top of a tractor all day long up and down a field and castrating hogs.  And she reached in her pocket and pulled out her knife and opened it up and showed me the blades she used on the hogs and the blades she used to trim her fingernails. And all of a sudden, the food I'd eaten for the last week was disagreeing with me somewhat terribly.  And we kept going. She was pulling me along now, pulling me along. And I thought, what's up there on the other side of that pond? I can't get loose. I don't know what to do. And we went around through there, and she told me the reason she went to college was because her daddy wanted her to find a man to marry who would come home with her and work with her daddy on the farm.  Well, about that time, she stopped to look down at me with big eyes. And she said, I never would have guessed that I would have met my future husband on a computer date. And I said, I must apologize to you deeply. But whatever I have eaten has terribly disagreed with me. And I'm afraid I'm going to have to terminate our date.  and I'm going to have to go get some relief. And I left her standing there just looking cow-eyed, and I took off. I thought, I will get back over here, and I'll just sit in the car because I always had a book with me, you know, wait until Bill gets through and we'll go. And I went around the corner where that car was, and he was already back in the car.  And he was sitting there with that list of five computer dates for $5, gradually ripping it up in one little piece after another, one little piece after another, one little piece after another. And the only thing he said about that date as we rode away was, I'm glad I'm not a Methodist.  Well, we kept those little torn up pieces, and we got back to campus, and we got the rest of my list, and we tore it up too, and we put it in a metal trash can, and we said voodoo words while we burned those papers up so they would never, never be readable again, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. Well, some of you remember several years ago that my late wife, Merle, died.  And after her death, people tried to be so kind. Well, some of them did. But once in a while, somebody would come up and they would think they had a great suggestion. They'd say, you know, Donald, they have this thing now called computer dating.  And to have, you know, different websites and different things and different things for different ages you could go on and everything like that. Maybe you should try that out. And they had no idea what I really meant when I looked straight at them and said, thank you, but I've already done that.

[SPEAKER_02 - 6031.343] 6034.354: Well, that really is it, the end of our show.

